---
layout: post
title:  "Hello"
date:   2025-01-26 21:36:46 +0000
categories: blog
---
Please appreciate the amount of restraint it took _not_ to title this post "Initial commit" or "Hello, world!". Over the next 13-or-so weeks I'll use this blog as a dumping ground for information about the project I'm working on for my MSc thesis: HeapKeep.

# What is HeapKeep?
At the moment HeapKeep is just an idea but if all goes well, HeapKeep will be a sort of software visualization tool that looks like a video game. Here's the plan;
1. Generate a callgraph of some arbitrary codebase
2. Feed that callgraph into Unreal Engine
3. Procedurally generate a dungeon based on the callgraph

That's the in-a-nutshell version but I doubt the implementation will be so straightforward. I'm not currently planning to implement any game mechanics beyond a minimap and the ability to walk around the level. Maybe if time permits I'll add some goblins or something but the core functionality - procedural level generation based on a computer-generated call graph - is the priority.
The research question has also yet to be nailed down but there are a few different routes I think I could go down. Most of them involve comparing HeapKeep to more traditional forms of code visualisation, like UML diagrams based on different criteria, like;
- Is HeapKeep better at conveying some aspect of the code (complexity, connections between modules, etc.) than traditional diagrams?
- Is HeapKeep more interesting/engaging than traditional diagrams?
- Can HeapKeep be used in conjunction with traditional diagrams to enhance both?
- Does using HeapKeep improve memory about the structure of the code compared to traditional diagrams?
- Is there something about a physical representation that allows spatial memory to contribute to understanding of the code?

# How far along is the project?
Basically, it isn't. I've created this blog, put together an elevator pitch presentation and... that's about it. I've researched and thought a fair bit about it but it's about time I start putting those thoughts into action. I picked up a license for [Dungeon Architect](https://dungeonarchitect.dev/) while it was on sale over Christmas, so I'm planning to start toying around with that. I'm hoping I'll be able to utilize it for the procedural level generation. I've also been looking at [Code2Flow](https://github.com/scottrogowski/code2flow) which might be a good starting point for generating call graphs.

## How did I create this blog?
This section is for my future self. Lat year I made a [blog about a 3D renderer I wrote](https://pipding.github.io/3dage_renderer/posts/) and I was happy with it, but when it came time to make this blog I couldn't remember what I'd done. I left enough clues in my [Initial commit!](https://pipding.github.io/3dage_renderer/2024/10/01/first-blog-post.html) (groan) post, to figure it out, but it would've been nice to have something more explicit.

### Step 1: Loosely follow the Github Pages Quickstart Guide
At time of writing, this guide works and you'll be able to figure out the bits you need to change. It's just a matter of naming the repo and choosing the branch you want to build from. If they move or change this page in the future, good luck.<br>
[https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/quickstart)

### Step 2: Create a new Jekyll site
Create your git repository, cd into the directory and run the following commands.
{% highlight bash %}
jekyll new --skip-bundle .
bundle install
bundle exec jekyll serve
{% endhighlight %}

That will get the site up and running, assuming no dependencies have changed (they will). Next you'll want to make some tweaks to the `_config.yml`. Here's what the one for this blog looks like. You can use this as a template.
{% highlight yaml %}
title: HeapKeep
description: >- # this means to ignore newlines until "baseurl:"
  A blog about the development of HeapKeep, an Unreal Engine project
  where levels are procedurally generated to visualise a codebase.
baseurl: "/heapkeep_blog" # Repo name
url: 'https://pipding.github.io/'
github_username:  pipding

# Build settings
theme: minima
sass:
  quiet_deps: true # This makes a lot of the inane deprecation warnings go away
plugins:
  - jekyll-feed

exclude:
  - .sass-cache/
  - .jekyll-cache/
  - gemfiles/
  - Gemfile
  - Gemfile.lock
  - node_modules/
  - vendor/bundle/
  - vendor/cache/
  - vendor/gems/
  - vendor/ruby/
{% endhighlight %}
